All right, sir. And the next question, could you
talk more about your views on the enemy?
Well, surely.
I did not hate the North Vietnamese. I remember
when I first came into the Marine Corps, the first
argument I had, I despised the Japanese. His
brother had been a Marine in the Second World War
and had been killed.
And he hated the Japanese as a race.
I didn't feel that hatred toward North
Vietnamese. I knew that they were the opponents,
the enemy, or the aggressors. And I had a job to do to
go out there and fight and win.
But I never got into a position or a situation which
caused me to hate them as a race or as a foreign
country. I didn't like them as a foreign country.
Propaganda against them was such that they were
the aggressors. They were trying to take over
another country. I think most Americans, and I am
surely one, who supported underdogs. and like to
support a cause like that. So from that aspect, I
thought the North Vietnamese
were wrong in trying to go down and take over South
Vietnam. I didn't agree with the way the North
Vietnamese lived. In other words, they did not
have a democracy. South Vietnam had a democracy,
although there was a lot of corruption that goes
on. There's corruption everywhere. But by and
large, I think they had a democracy. I also believe
in the domino theory that if Vietnam fell, then
other countries around them would fall, finally
until you get down to Malaysia and to the Malaccan
Straits and cut off shipping halfway around the
world at that point. And we're seeing that to some
degree now. There's not a timetable for the domino
period. But Cambodia is gone. Thailand's in
trouble. Laos is in trouble. So we've just seen the
domino effect of the country starting to fall
there on
the realm of Asia. All right, sir. Concerning
the... if you will, the individualism of the war,
the one-year tours. Do you believe that, or could
you just talk about that, concerning having the
one-year tours versus having units go over to a war
together, doing whatever they're going to,
whatever operations, and then coming back as a
unit? Okay. Versus going over and staying over
also, or just rotating people as opposed to units.
Yes, sir. I
don't know of a better way, another way to make it
work other than rotating
people. Ideally, in a perfect world, we would like
to have a combat unit that's had all of its people in
there. for a reasonable length of time so that that
unit is well trained. You can pick it up, send it to a
combat zone, and fight.
And then at the end of its assigned tour, you can
pick them up, take another unit, and put them there
in their place to continue the war effort. You have
several problems, and they're massive problems.
First of all, when you take a unit and plop it into a
country like that, into a war zone, probably
inexperienced in the nature of that particular
war. And it takes them a while to come up to speed.
For instance, we brought a regiment, put together
a regiment in Vietnam, and brought them in. We
created a regiment of 27 Marines in California and
brought them over to Vietnam. and they were to take
over a certain sector in the 1st Marine Division
Zone of Action. There was so much apprehension at
the senior command level about their
survivability that they had a two- or three-week
training period with the 1st Marine Division
units that were in there to learn about the booby
traps, to learn how to fight in the jungle and to
eat. And they took a lot of casualties after they
first got there. After they were cut loose, we
actually had people nearly holding their hands
for two or three weeks. And when that development
part was cut loose, they suffered high casualties
until they became combat savvy.
The next problem is that when you have a war and
you're expanding your forces, First of all,
you're having casualties of the units in the
combat zone, and you've got to replace those at the
same time to be trying to build these new units and
then get them trained. I'll tell you, it takes a
long time to train a combat unit. And if you're
starting with all fresh people with no corporate
knowledge, then that's extremely difficult. And
your personnel flow, your manpower flow, just
barely prevents you from creating new units maybe
50% combat veterans and the rest inexperienced
soldiers and sending them off to combat.
On the other hand, the individual rotation is
difficult because you never have a combat
organization that is a well-trained, well-oiled
machine. You've got people coming in weekly.
effectiveness is down to that lowest common
denominator, that new person, until he gets some
experience and some training. On the other hand,
it's better for, let's say, an infantry company
that might have 150 people It's far better to have
only 10 or 15 of those that are in the training
process and are in experience. That's 10% as
opposed to a big unit, 100% in experience. That's
where you can have a lot of serious
mistakes and have a lot of casualties. I would have
preferred
to go over with a unit that was full strength And all
of its equipment, people were well trained. But I
think that will only work if you first go into a
combat. After that, the follow-on units are just
too hard to put together. In the ideal situation,
if everything were perfect, if you had everything
that you needed, that would be a great way to go to
war. You would know all the people. You would know
how dependable the man on your right is, the man on
your left is. Practice. All right, sir. Did you
notice any differences? I guess first, if you
could talk some more about your experience in
Vietnam in 1963 when you first went there doing the
hydro surveys. Did you have any contact with the
enemy or anything
other than just doing the hydro surveys? We had
contact with the enemy on several occasions. As I
say, the war had been going on in Vietnam for a long
time. We got ambushed a couple of times. We were not
on seek and destroy missions. We were strictly
doing reconnaissance missions. But we got
ambushed a couple of times, got pinned down in as
much as eight hours. So there was a full-fledged
war going on. It was a war between the North
Vietnamese and the South Vietnamese. We just
happened to get in the way a couple of times. And did
you see any differences in the way, I guess in the
overall context, the way the war was being fought
in 63 versus 68? I really can't comment on that
because I wasn't in there in a position to have
first-hand knowledge of that. Ours were all
meeting engagements where we walked into
something, got in the middle of something, We
operated off the ship every night. We'd go in in the
morning and come out at night. So I was not there
permanently. We did not have an opportunity to
observe it through our system. All right, sir. Do
you have any experience with the Marine PAC units
or the program, the pacification? PAC or the CAP
units, Combat Action Detentions? Yes, sir, the
CAP units. We had some, and I think it was a very
successful program. What we did was take Marines.
We would set up a command organization or a command
structure, and we would take a squad of Marines and
put them in a village. And then they were there to
teach the people how to defend themselves. They
would dig fighting holes and trenches around
their village. They would set up a reaction force
to respond to critical areas. They had weapons. We
taught them how to clean their weapons, how to fire
them. and gave them the basic combat skills you
need for defensive type warfare. It was also a good
source of intelligence. We had, and it was really,
it resulted in pacifying the various areas and it
was very effective until we had to pull those
organizations out. A lot of those squads or
platoons that were involved in the combat action
platoons, Got in some good scraps, good combat.
The North Vietnamese or the Viet Cong learned how
effective they were, and they went up on the hit
list. Usually the intelligence was good enough
that they could be reinforced and protected.
Occasionally it was not, and we did not have an
entire squad, but it was a very effective program.
It was a dedicated bunch of Marines that were
involved in that. And if you don't have enough
military forces to actively patrol and cover an
area, then I can't think of a better way to do it than
to leave just little pockets of people in each one
of the villages to bolster the local defenses
there that those villages had and create a
reporting chain where we could gather
intelligence. All right, sir. And your views on
the anti-war demonstrators? Didn't have any in
Vietnam. You have to say back here in the States. Of
course, I was going to graduate school after that,
so I really wasn't particularly attuned to it.
I'm trying to think back as to what my views were at
that time.
I thought they were un-American to start with.
They were a country unified. that you ought to or
ought to support the fight. And I guess that was my
first awakening that how great the same could be.
It's not popular, that
people would rise up in arms against it. I think
it's one thing to protest. It's another to be
destructive, where they burned ROTC buildings on
campuses. where they burned the flags and the
draft boards. I recognize these are acts of
symbolism. But to me, that's carrying
it too far. When you
carry it to the length that you appear to be
anti-American, that's
too far. I think Jane Fonda was wrong in going to the
North Vietnamese Yes,
sir. Your
views
on the Selective Service, the National Guard?
Well, some people have had the view that there was
such a waiting list to get into, say, like the
National Guard because they would stay out of
combat. And on the Selective Service, the draft,
given the nature of Vietnam and the presidents
that they deceived the American public and that
they were pumping in Americans over to Vietnam
through the use of the draft.
Well, first of all, I believe in conscription. I
think every American ought to serve his country,
whether it's peacetime or
war. I think that's been one of the strengths of
this country. One of the problems that we are
facing now and will become greater in the future is
the fact that our politicians and our Congressmen
lack military experience. a large portion of it
goes to national defense. You can't have a strong
country without a strong national defense. And
we're getting to the point where the majority of
congressmen have not served in the military, have
not gained an appreciation and an understanding
of what the militaries all have and what its roles
and missions are. So from that point of view, I
think conscription is good. as to whether or not it
was effective during, whether the Selective
Service was effective during Vietnam. In all,
during all conflicts, you have exceptions to all
rules. Waivers are given. This is where politics
comes in, sprains are pulled. I'll get my son out of
going, I think, into law school or into medical
school or into college when he shouldn't be flying
around. The system is designed for things like
that. What the system is not designed for is
professors giving people passing grades when
they're funded, and that went on to a large extent.
If you could get into college and you were at a
liberal campus with good profs, you got grades,
not necessarily an education, because those
profs didn't support the war effort, and that was
one person. If they could pass someone, though
they may not have deserved it, there was one less
person that could go support that war and support
the country.
I have no problem with the National Guard. They've
only got so many openings to fill.
The National Guard was not a problem. I don't think
their ranks swole at all. You're always limited by
a table of organization. If someone gets out, you
can replace that person. I don't think the
National Guard was a problem. Talk about Dan
Quayle being able to get into the National Guard. I
don't think a special opening was made for him.
There were some openings that he was able to get
into. All right, sir. Concerning the reserves,
though, I don't know what the thrust of that
question is, but I do know that a lot of active
reserve units or people in active reserve units
were disappointed that they were not called to
war, not activated and ordered to war. When the
President did not call up the reserves, a lot of
those people
left their reserve units and re-enlisted or came
into the active Marine Corps
to combat. All right, sir. You had said earlier
that you had reopened Khe Sanh. Could you comment
on that and also any particular feelings of
reopening something that had once been occupied
But, you know, it was giving, if you will, back to
the enemy, but, like I say, going back to reopen it.
No, no particular feelings. That was just another
combat operation. It was a large one.
To me, there was no emotional attachment to it or
any symbolism to the fact that we'd occupied it. We
lost a lot of people there. It was another
objective of the combat operation.
It was just another operation for me. It had some
historical significance, but nothing other than
that. All right, sir. Also, the last question, I
guess it's a doozy, but your feelings of if and or
how we could have won, or if you believe we did win.
Militarily, we won the war. We won over there. We
were controlling the countryside.
through combat actions and then the fact that we
were able to turn it over to pacification
units. We had done our job
in military. We did not win the war, though,
because the country didn't support them. That's
the difference. War is just one of those tools that
politicians
use in dealing with other countries.
when we couldn't escalate anymore. And that was a
political decision, not a military decision.
We've served our purpose. We could have spent many
more years there as an occupation force. That
would have given the Vietnamese more time to
stabilize and build their country. But they would
have come to rely on us much more, because there's a
lot of money that's spent on the military forces in
there. You've got a lot of people in there. You're
spending money. You're buying goods. You're
building things. And I think we would have caused
the Vietnamese to become dependent on us if
we had stayed in there too long. But when we pulled
out of Vietnam, we pulled out, I think, rather
abruptly.
We should have come out more slowly. probably made
greater efforts to bolster the Vietnamese forces
so that they could defend themselves and fight.
But we've reached a point in America's history
where there was zero sentiment
for that part of the world and no support. And when
the politicians cut off the first trains, you
can't find them, so we had to pull out. That's what
happened right there. There was a lack of support
from the United States I'm of the school of thought
that unless we get into the only war that we will be
able to successfully fight, and be careful in how I
say that, the only war that will have popular U.S.
support will be a world war. Anything less than
that will not. We have to commit forces to a combat
zone. We need to go in there with sufficient forces
to win within 30 days and be out within 90 days.
Americans, as I indicated earlier, like to go in,
get the job done, wipe their hands, and get out. And
about a 90-day weather is all that allows. So we
have to pick where we're going if we have to go
anywhere. Go in there and actually do the job in 90
days and take the next 60 days to get out and guard
the location. After 90, I think we will see support
of Americans waning, beginning to wane at 30 days.
And at 90 days, it will be on a rapid decline where we
are. And from that point on, we will not be able to
fight
a successful war. The only exception to that would
be if we were attacked in the case of a world war
where we have mobilization where everyone is
involved, everyone's life is touched, then you
may have the ideal support of most people, not all
people. That's the only exception. That's a sad
commentary, but that's the way Americans are made
up. We're industrious. And that's why we like,
because we're an industrial nation, we like to see
things happen quickly. You see it in business, you
see it in how we conduct our affairs. You want to go
in and talk to a lawyer and get your business done
and get out. You want to start a company, you want to
make a lot of money, you just hate the routine daily
grind.
And it reflects in the support of the war. All
right, sir. Well, I appreciate you giving me this
time for this interview, and that concludes the
interview.